More thoughts
<advertisement of unfinished but possibly useful code>
An alpha version of a Venn diagram package is available in the Vennerable
project at sourceforge.net:
	http://sourceforge.net/projects/vennerable/
There is no function documentation whatsoever but there is a richly illustrated vignette.
As the vignette says,
The Vennerable package provides routines to compute and plot
Venn diagrams, from the classic two- and three-circle diagrams
to diagrams using different shapes and
for up to seven sets. In addition it can plot diagrams in which the
area of each region is is proportional to the corresponding number of set items or 
other weights.

The vignette is at http://sourceforge.net/project/showfiles.php?group_id=187852&package_id=248212
</advertisement of unfinished but possibly useful code>
The development of the package was a hobby halted for a while by some more important real life events
but I will restart it if there is interest. In the mean time, some of the thoughts that it prompted:


Some observations on Venn diagrams from the perspective of information display

1) That's right, you can't create Venn diagrams for more than 3 sets using circles.
Even Venn suggested using ellipses for 4 sets, and Liqun He demonstrated a very elegant
drawing for 5 ellipses. 
3) For displaying Venn diagrams with information on what is in each intersection, the 2- and 3- circle diagrams are so
well established that using anything else may be confusing, but they are not at all ideal. Particularly for the
3-circle case, the resulting geometry with lots of curved pointy sectors, causes the relative size of each intersection 
to be visually misleading, especially if one is trying to make the point that there are more elements in one
particular intersection than others. Placing text inside the intersections is also tricky.  Ellipses share the
same difficulties.
2) The 'Cogwheels of the mind' book by AWF Edwards is an entertaining and attractive read,
 and does give his construction of Venn diagrams for an arbitrary number of sets. It wouldn't claim
to say it gives 'the' theory. The constructions are not really usable to display content 
by themselves (and weren't meant to be). Any such construction is self-similar in nature and there's a reason
Tufte doesnt draw on fractals much. (Though typing that is probably a challenge to someone). 
4) For Venn diagrams on 3 or 4 sets I think a rectangular construction (invented by Lewis Carroll and
described by Edwards) is much clearer. There is an example of the 4-set diagram in the vignette mentioned above.

A generalisation of Venn diagrams is to draw the curves so that the area of each intersection is proportional
to some weight (typically the number of members in that intersection). Some observations on this:
1) This works well for 2 sets using overlapping circles. 
2) You can't do it in general for 3 sets using circles (although some have tried: there is eg a contributed Matlab code for this
and my package implements a similar approximate algorithm.
3) You can do it for 3 sets using squares with bits hacked out. 